# HexBin-Quiz

## Overview
HexBin-Quiz is a bit of a misnomer. It should probably be called DecHexBin-Quiz. This project was supposed to help developers using the command line to practice converting between decimal, binary and hexadecimal bases. The main goal of this project was to brush up on some basic C from high school while learning a lot about the language. At the time, I thought this would be a relatively simple project to do in C, since it combines a lot of important concepts the languages such as strings and pointers. However, despite it being a simple program in theory, due the nature of the language, this project became harder and harder to finish. There are a lot of bugs and every time I thought I fixed a bug, I found a new one. Obviously, this is a given as a programmer, but I have other projects in other languages that I really want to start and this one was taking up to much of my time. Despite of these feelings and setbacks, I really enjoyed this project as it made me want to program even more and learn more about the C programming language. It was a challenging project that I really enjoyed and would totally attempt this project again once my C knowledge improves.

## What I've learned
I have greatly improved my understanding of pointers and strings in C. I've also learned more about what caused segmentation faults and how to fix them methodically (I've had them before but there were very few). I've also learned more about buffers and new functions such as sscanf() and sprintf(). Also, when calling the random generator, make sure to call srand() once in the program. I've also learned how to return strings from a function and the use of the static keyword to do so. Along with returning strings, I've essentially learned how to return pointers from functions (since strings are pointers). I've also learned a lot about string formatting since I had to use sprintf() along with %x to convert a decimal to hexidecimal numbers and how to convert strings into integers with strtol() to convert decimal to binary numbers. Since this project contains a few files, I've learned more about the linking amd building process of multiple file projects in C. I've learn quite a few about C I would never had learned by simply reading about it.

## Improvements
Since this is C, there are a lot of things that is wrong with my code. There are still a lot of bugs in the program, and the program doesn't work as intended. For example, while manual testing, I thought that the converting functions where fine until I decided to test them in the main() in quiz.c. This is where a lot of bugs started to arise. All of a sudden, the program doesn't work as intended anymore. In instances where I use sprintf(), I probably use aprintf() instead. In questions.c, I didn't free allocated memory after creating the questions. Thankfully, this program doesn't do anything serious or it would end up doing something undefined. Also, the design of my code is really terrible, horrendous. There is a lot of repetition so DRY is not applied and there are very little helper functions. There are so many improvements that can be done to my code that I can't even come up with.
